# Air Combat
This game was developed by a group of four people:
 * Tam Nguyen
 * Lauri Westerholm
 * Oskari Järvi
 * Lauri Blomberg

The project lasted 1.5 months, 1.11.2018 - 14.12.2018.
## Responsibilities
Everyone contributed everywhere in source code. However, here are their main roles:
 * Tam Nguyen
    * Automatic Build System (Makefile).
    * Defining project structures.
    * README.md
    * Setting up git configurations
    * Setting up doxygen configurations
    * Team coordinating
    * Consulting
    * Creating tasks
    * Modernize codebase by using C++17 features and refactoring.
    * AI
    * CommonDefinitions
    * Entity
    * GameEngine (60 FPS rendering, reacting to user inputs).
    * PhysicsWorld (Make static objects visible to dynamic objects.)
    * Plane (movements)
    * Infantry (movements)
    * ResourceManager
    * World (killing list)
    * Bash script, produceCommonDefinition (generates values for CommonDefinitions)
* Lauri Westerholm
    * UI and its subclasses LevelEditor and MainMenu
    * Button, ImageButton, TextInput (UI related classes)
    * Level and LevelEntity (LevelEditor related classes)
    * Stats
    * main.cpp
    * World (Hit detection)
    * GameEngine (GameOver screen and scoring system)
* Oskari Järvi
    * World- and PhysicsWorld -classes
        * SFML and Box2d relationship.
        * Game physics
        * Creation of entities
        * Updating world
    * Player controlled plane shooting.
* Lauri Blomberg
    * Entity class and it’s subclasses
    * Shooting for AI

## Technologies Used
We use following tools to make this game possible: bash, box2D, c+\+17, doxygen, g++, gdb, gimp, git, make, sfml and valgrind.

Building require follow packages:
|package | version (used for building) |
|:------:|:-------:|
|libbox2d-dev| 2.3.1+ds-4|
|libsfml-dev| 2.4.1+dfsg-3|

## Repository Content
### ./
Root of the repository contains Makefile which is used to compile the project binaries.
It also contains Doxyfile for generating Doxygen documentation of the project.
### ./src
Source folder contains all source code and headers implemented apart from files that
are used purely for testing. During compilation object files and the main executable
game is build to src.
### ./test
Contains unit test mains for the project. These file were used during testing phases of
the project. Test executables and objects are build to this folder by make test.
### ./data
Contains subfolders for data related files. Fonts are stored in [./data/fonts](../data/fonts) .
All game entity and button related images are in [./data/img](../data/img).
One music file is in [./data/music](../data/music).
Game logs generated by spdlog are in [.data/logs](../data/logs). - disabled at the moment, not in use.
Level editor saves levels created by users in these folders: [./data/level_files/](../data/level_files/) and [./data/level_img](../data/level_img).
All miscellaneous data files which don’t fit to any other subfolder (i.e. files used to generate help screens and stats view) are in [./data/misc](../data/misc).
### ./doc
Contains the project documentation generated by Doxygen or users.

## Gameplay
Read README for build, run and clean instructions.

Main Menu can be navigated by using Tab, Arrow Keys, Mouse, Enter.

Single Player Control:
* A = move left
* D = move right
* W = move up
* S = move down
* Q = rotate counterclockwise
* E = rotate clockwise
* Z = shoot

Multiplayer, Players Control:
Player 1 has same controls as in the single player mode.

Player 2 
* J = move left
* L = move right
* I = move up
* K = move down
* U = rotate counterclockwise
* O = rotate clockwise
* M = shoot

## Winning & Losing (also in Main Menu Help)
Single Player:
* Destroy all red planes and red bases to win.
    * Score is awarded from kills and time (try to be as fast as possible).
    * Score can be found from Stats in the main menu.
* Blue plane destroyed => lost 
    *  Score is 0

Multiplayer:
* Destroy enemy plane
    * No score is awarded nor Stats entry generated

## Classes
Classes are already documented in their hpp-files. Execute doxygen in [./](../) to generated documents of each class.

